README for ensembl-test

1 October 2001


This directory serves a different purpose to the t/ subdirectories
within each module and DOES NOT replace them or supersede them in any
way.

This directory contains what could best be called test/integrity
code.  In more detail..


ensembl-test/integrity-tests

A dir which will contain a test harness to run some sanity
checks on the core database, post-Genebuild - more on this
below.  This has the same framework as the /t directory in
the core ensembl code.


ensembl-test/test-genome

A dir which will contain the scripts/sql to perform a run of
the raw and Genebuild pipelines on a cut-down (2Mbps) test
genome.  This is aimed at providing a meaningful check that
the pipeline is playing nicely without running the whole
genome.  Other dirs will be something like:

 /create/  - dir with sql/scripts to create the test genome
             from scratch.
 /run/     - the scripts which actually kick-off the
             pipelines.
 /compare/ - scripts to check the output from the newly run
             pipeline against what it should have done.


And just a wee bit more on the integrity or sanity checks on
the database.  Below is a list of "useful" tests initially
planned:

- Check that genes appear just once with a unique id.
- Each gene should have at least one transcript.

- A transcript should always be associated with one gene,
and one gene only.
- Each transcript should have at least one exon.
- A transcript should always translate.
- Check for the existence of "long" transcripts (Arek once
found a transcript which covered an entire chromosome....)

- Exons may be shared between transcripts but not between
genes.
- Exons should be associated with a transcript.
- Check that exons are not duplicated - e.g. an exon with
the same coordinates appearing multiple times with different
ids. (A headache for id mapping??)
- Check that non-sticky exons are bigger than 1bp "or a decent
size".

There may be other things that might be worth checking for,
so any input would be useful.  There may be other wee
problems that have been encountered which could be checked
for.

Feeback, comments etc...

Alistair & Daniel.
